David Mitchell, Cloud Atlas:
„History admits no rules; only outcomes.“
„As many truths as men. Occasionally, I glimpse a truer Truth, hiding in imperfect simulacrums of itself, but as I approach, it bestirs itself & moves deeper into the thorny swamp of dissent.“
„Do ants get headaches“
„How lazily "xperts" dismiss what they fail to understand“
„Funny, thinks Milton. Power, time, gravity, love. The forces that really kick ass are all invisible.“
„And for what? For what? No matter what you do it will never amount to anything more than a single drop in a limitless ocean.
Adam Ewing:
What is an ocean but a multitude of drops?“



„I guess I could be pretty pissed off about what happened to me... but it's hard to stay mad, when there's so much beauty in the world.“
—American Beauty

„You have no idea what I'm talking about, I'm sure. But don't worry... you will someday.“ — American beauty 

"As always in life people want a simple answer. It's like that lovely quote, for every complex problem in life there's always a simple answer  and it's always wrong.
Susan Greenfield

Dear little neutronian who lives on a nucleus in an atom of my knee,
If you do not stop jumping around, you are going to cause an atomic blast and 
Blow up the universe."
Therese Hance Hutcherson Braithwaite

Reserve your right to think, for even to think wrongly is better than not to think at all.
Hypatia von Alexandria

Wenn ich heute nicht erfolgreich bin, greife ich morgen wieder an.
Mary Somerville 

Was immer ich beginne, ich halte es durch, ich bleibe beharrlich treu und vernichte niemanden.
Hildegard von Bingen

„Le savant n’étudie pas la nature parce que cela est utile; il l’étudie parce qu’il y prend plaisir et il y prend plaisir parce qu’elle est belle. Si la nature n’était pas belle, elle ne vaudrait pas la peine d’être connue, la vie ne vaudrait pas la peine d’être vécue.“ —Henri Poincaré

Our lives are not our own. We are bound to others, past and present, and by each crime and every kindness, we birth our future.
David Mitchell, Cloud Atlas 

I understand now that boundaries between noise and sound are conventions. All boundaries are conventions, waiting to be transcended. One may transcend any convention if only one can first conceive of doing so.
David Mitchell, Cloud Atlas


„It is the peculiar beauty of this method, gentlemen, and one which endears it to the really scientific mind, that under no circumstance can it be of the smallest possible utility.“ — Henry John Stephen Smith




“I would not know what to say to you, except this: there was never a map that got it all right, and truth and beauty were never married to one another for long.” 
― Reif Larsen, The Selected Works of T.S. Spive






“Yeah, well, you know, that’s just, like, your opinion, man.” — The Dude, The big lebowski

Better to be at the bottom of a ladder you want to climb than in the middle of some ladder you don’t, right?
Dave Eggers, The circle

I have no idea how people function without near-constant internal chaos. I'd lose my mind.
Dave Eggers, A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius

There is no real ending. It’s just the place where you stop the story.
Frank Herbert

Marc-Uwe Kling:
Weißt du, was passiert, wenn man sich immer alle Türen offen hält? Dann zieht’s, mein Freund. Dann wird man krank.

Das Tolle am Internet ist, dass endlich jeder der ganzen Welt seine Meinung mitteilen kann. Das Furchtbare ist, dass es auch jeder tut.

Es gibt sone und solche, und dann gibt es noch janz andre, aba dit sind die Schlimmstn.

Arbeiten macht Spaß. Aba acht Stunden Spaß kann ick einfach nich vatrang.

Wer Visionen haben will, darf nicht an den Drogen sparen.

Es ist möglich, dass ich mich blamiere, indes ist dann immer mit einiger Dialektik zu helfen. Ich habe natürlich meine Ausführungen so gehalten, dass ich im umgekehrten Fall auch recht habe.

Aber dann habe ich wieder den klassischen Problemlösungsweg gewählt und nicht weiter darüber nachgedacht.

Ville red er nich, aba wat er sacht, is Quatsch.




La tâche de l'éducateur est de faire repasser l'esprit de l'enfant par où a passé celui de ses pères, en passant rapidement par certaines étapes mais en n'en supprimant aucune. À ce compte, l'histoire de la science doit être notre guide.
The task of the educator is to make the child's spirit pass again where its forefathers have gone, moving rapidly through certain stages but suppressing none of them. In this regard, the history of science must be our guide.
"La logique et l'intuition dans la science mathématique et dans l'enseignement" [Logic and intuition in the science of mathematics and in teaching], L'enseignement mathématique (1899)




Let it give us one more final pleasure: drink it and forget it all!
Feynman lectures I

Essentially, all models are wrong, but some are useful. 

Box, G. E. P., and Draper, N. R., (1987), 
Empirical Model Building and Response Surfaces, John Wiley & Sons, New York, NY
p 424


1 For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven:
[...] 4 a time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance
Eccl 4


“Then he began to pity the great fish that he had hooked. He is wonderful and strange and who knows how old he is, he thought.” 

“Now is no time to think of what you do not have. Think of what you can do with what there is.”
― Ernest Hemingway, The Old Man and the Sea 

 The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.
Martin Luther King, Jr.


 Imagination rules the world.
Napoleon Bonaparte


 Impossible is a word to be found only in the dictionary of fools.
Napoleon Bonaparte


"Klotzen, nicht Kleckern!
-- Heinz Guderian

 Experience: that most brutal of teachers. But you learn, my God do you learn.
C. S. Lewis

 If you look for truth, you may find comfort in the end; if you look for comfort you will not get either comfort or truth only soft soap and wishful thinking to begin, and in the end, despair.
C. S. Lewis

 You are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream.
C. S. Lewis

 As a single footstep will not make a path on the earth, so a single thought will not make a pathway in the mind. To make a deep physical path, we walk again and again. To make a deep mental path, we must think over and over the kind of thoughts we wish to dominate our lives.
Henry David Thoreau

 Truth, like gold, is to be obtained not by its growth, but by washing away from it all that is not gold.
Leo Tolstoy

 When you look into an abyss, the abyss also looks into you.
Friedrich Nietzsche

 It is nearly always the most improbable things that really come to pass.
E. T. A. Hoffmann

 All, everything that I understand, I understand only because I love.
Leo Tolstoy

 A man must be big enough to admit his mistakes, smart enough to profit from them, and strong enough to correct them.
John C. Maxwell

 Whatever you do in life, surround yourself with smart people who'll argue with you.
John Wooden

 From the errors of others, a wise man corrects his own.
Publilius Syrus

 Magic is believing in yourself, if you can do that, you can make anything happen.
Johann Wolfgang von Goethe


